#summary NANOOS Xenia Implementation at APL-UW ("XAN")
#labels NANOOS,Xenia

= NANOOS Xenia Implementation at APL-UW ("XAN") =

[http://www.apl.washington.edu/ APL-UW] has adapted [http://code.google.com/p/xenia/wiki/XeniaHome SECOORA's Xenia schema] for its [http://www.nanoos.org NANOOS] in-situ database, created in 2009 to complement [http://www.stccmop.org/datamart/ CMOP's] NANOOS in-situ database; these two databases together now make up the primary repository of in-situ marine monitoring supported by NANOOS in the Pacific NW. In general, CMOP focuses on data from the Columbia estuary while APL-UW focuses on data from Washington state, but these are only loose distinctions and there's geographical overlap.

I've been informally referring to this Xenia implementation as *XAN* (_Xenia APL-NANOOS_); it's a convenient -- but unofficial -- acronym. I implemented and adapted the Xenia data model for PostgreSQL. It's been running on Ubuntu Linux 8.10 with PostgreSQL 8.3.7, but it will be migrated to a Fedora Hat server very soon. I will gradually add documentation and discussions on this page, but for now here's what I have:
  * A presentation I gave on Feb. 22 at the [http://www.agu.org/meetings/os10/ Ocean Sciences 2010 meeting] in Portland, OR: [http://www.agu.org/cgi-bin/SFgate/SFgate?language=English&verbose=0&listenv=table&application=os10&convert=&converthl=&refinequery=&formintern=&formextern=&transquery=au%3dmayorga&_lines=&multiple=0&descriptor=%2fdata%2fepubs%2fwais%2findexes%2fos10%2fos10|816|4893|Regional%20to%20local%20IOOS%20Data%20Management%20and%20Interoperability:%20Perspective%20from%20the%20Trenches%20%28NANOOS%2c%20US%20Pacific%20NW%29|HTML|localhost:0|%2fdata%2fepubs%2fwais%2findexes%2fos10%2fos10|274797%20279690%20%2fdata2%2fepubs%2fwais%2fdata%2fos10%2fos10.txt "Regional to local IOOS Data Management and Interoperability: Perspective from the Trenches (NANOOS, US Pacific NW)"]. Here's the [http://www2.nanoos.org/emilio/Mayorga_OceanSci2010_NANOOSAPL_DataManagement.ppt powerpoint presentation (11 MB)].
  * [http://www2.nanoos.org/emilio/XAN2_dev_PgAdmin110_DataModel.gif Schema diagram for the "core" tables] (organized in a PostgreSQL schema called "core"). Not all joins are shown.
  * [http://www2.nanoos.org/emilio/xan_geo_DataModel.gif Schema diagram for geospatial (PostGIS-enabled) and supporting tables] (organized in a PostgreSQL schema called "geo"). These are generated automatically from tables in the core schema. The Observation Series Catalog shown here is actually a view, but this view just adds fields from joined look-up tables to the main table that's auto-updated. The joins shown on this diagram are only for documentation; they're not actually implemented on the database (because the tables are auto-updated, there's just no need to formally define the referential constraints).

We don't yet have a comprehensive, online data access and visualization application for all datasets in XAN, but one of these datasets ([http://prism.washington.edu PRISM Cruises, Puget Sound, WA]) is available from a component of the [http://www.nanoos.org/nvs/nvs.php?path=NVS-Assets-Cruises-PRISM NANOOS Visualization System (NVS)].

[http://code.google.com/p/xenia/wiki/nanoos_xenia_sos Here are some old discussions on the implementation of the OOSTethys Perl SOS server on top of XAN]. I'll update these eventually.