#summary Development ideas or requests in regards to the Xenia database

A listing of Xenia development ideas in no particular priority order

<wiki:toc max_depth="6" />

= 1. Sqlite Xenia + Geoserver =

Currently Geoserver (http://geoserver.com) can connect directly to several popular databases, but not Sqlite that I have seen documented.  Having this path would allow the usual array of formats/products available via Geoserver to also be available via a Sqlite Xenia db instance.

Currently one path might be sqlite -> jdbc -> geoserver , but haven't had a chance to experiment or document this.

sqlite -> jdbc http://www.ch-werner.de/javasqlite/

jdbc -> geoserver http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GEOT-241 

*Update April 11, 2008*  After reading this [http://www.epot.org/blog/?tag=sqlite post] saying that using sqlite in combination with jdbc is extremely slow, am considering doing an H2 (java embedded database http://www.h2database.com/ ) Xenia version which should have better jdbc perfomance, etc.

= 2. Sqlite in-memory performance benchmarking = 

Sqlite allows the amount of memory utilized to be set via the 'PRAGMA default_cache_size' command.  Compare some 'typical' query response times with the db in memory (db size say around 200-500 MB) against a file(disk) based version. 

= 3. ~~conversion script - Seacoos netCDF to obskml~~ =

*Update* Dan Ramage completed this task documented at http://code.google.com/p/xenia/source/browse/trunk/obskml/NetCDFToObsKML/scout

This would provide a path for existing, future Seacoos netCDF feeds to be available via ObsKML/Xenia also.

= 3.a conversion script - CarolinasCoast aggregation to obskml =

Charlton Galvorino did some earlier aggregations of NWS, NDBC, USGS, etc to a hash and then to a Xenia db instance in getting the CarolinasCoast project going.  Instead of going to a hash, send this data to ObsKML making it available as part of a community of feeds.  

If an 'IOOS' xml encoding is used at some future date by several federal backbone providers, that common xml encoding could also be used as a conversion source to obskml or just converted directly to sql for populating a xenia instance.

= 4. ~~Convert PostgreSQL 'top_of_hour' trigger to Sqlite~~ = 

*Update* This issue has been [http://code.google.com/p/xenia/wiki/XeniaUpdates#top_of_the_hour_trigger addressed]

This would allow the same observation labeling functionality given by the trigger described at http://nautilus.baruch.sc.edu/twiki_dmcc/bin/view/Main/XeniaPackageV2#d_top_of_hour_integer_d_report_h to the Xenia Sqlite version

= 5. conversion script - obskml to obsregistry xml = 

The observation registry effort http://obsregistry.org utilizes a xml formatted feed/harvest.  A conversion script would help supply that feed type and support that effort.

= 6. ~~conversion script - obskml to georss~~ =

*Update* Dan Ramage completed this task documented at http://code.google.com/p/xenia/source/browse/trunk/obskml/products/georss

GeoRSS associates a description (perhaps changing with time like a weather feed) with an associated latitude, longitude and elevation.  Should be straightforward to convert hourly KML placemarks with table content into separate GeoRSS location feeds.

= ~~7. documentation of enabling an OGC SOS feed utilizing pySOS + Xenia (sqlite, postgres)~~ =

*Update* this issue has been addressed at http://code.google.com/p/xenia/wiki/XeniaSOS

Bill Howe has developed a python script and configuration files to OGC SOS enable relational databases with 'view' queries configured appropriately http://www.oostethys.org/downloads/sos-cookbook-python

Haven't gone through the Xenia specific steps to enable this type of service but want to and provide documentation.

= 8. ~~conversion script - obskml to 'IOOS' XML encoding~~ = 

*Update* this issue has been addressed at http://code.google.com/p/xenia/wiki/XeniaSOS


An IOOS program office http://ioos.noaa.gov/program effort is underway to define an initial XML encoding for observations which can be agreed upon and utilized to share data nationally.  A conversion script would help supply that feed type and support that effort.

= 9. ~~Xenia 'package' or build~~ = 

*Update Feb 12, 2009* this issue has been address at [VMwareHome]

Same as the earlier idea at http://nautilus.baruch.sc.edu/twiki_dmcc/bin/view/Main/XeniaPackageImage this would be to have a 'build' version which might utilize some configuration xml files, but otherwise outputs/products/services are already setup to go with whatever data is imported into it.  Something like a knoppix/debian distribution that might live on an embedded device like a gumstix http://www.gumstix.com